and behold a man of God went from Judah
to Bethel by the word of the Lord and
Jeroboam stood by the altar to burn
incense then he cried out against the
altar by the word of the Lord
Oh alter alter thus says the Lord behold
a child
Josiah by name shall be born to the
house of David and on you he shall
sacrifice the priests of the high places
who burn incense on you and men's bones
shall be burned on you and he gave a
sign the same day this is the sign which
the Lord has spoken
surely the altar shall split apart and
the ashes on it shall be poured out so
it came to pass when King Jeroboam heard
the saying of the man of God who cried
out against the altar in Bethel but he
stretched out his hand from the altar
arrest him in his head which he
stretched out toward him with it so that
he could not put it back to himself the
altar also was split apart
and ashes and ward out from the origin
according to the sign which the man of
God had given by the word of the Lord
then the King answered and said to the
man of God please entreat the favor of
the Lord your God and pray for me that
my hand may be restored to me so the man
of God entreated the law and the Kings
hand was restored and became as before
then the king said to the man of God
come on with me and refresh yourself and
I will give you a reward if you were to
give me half your house I would not go
in with you nor would I eat bread nor
drink water in this place for so it was
commanded me by the word of the Lord
saying you shall not eat bread nor drink
water nor return by the same way you
came so he went another way and did not
return by the way he came to Bethel now
an old prophet dwelt in Bethel and his
sons came and told him all the works
that the man of God had done that day in
Bethel they also told their father the
words which he had spoken to the king
and their father said to them which way
did he go for his sons had seen which
way the man of God went who came from
Judah then he said to his sons shuttle
the donkey for me so they saddled the
donkey for him and he rode on it and
went after the man of God and found him
sitting under an oak
are you the man of God who came from
Judah I am come home with me and eat
bread I cannot return with you nor go in
with you neither can I eat bread nor
drink water with you in this place for I
have been told by the word of the Lord
you shall not eat bread nor drink water
there now return by going the way you
came I too am a prophet as you are and
an angel spoke to me by the word of the
Lord saying bring him back with you to
your house that he may eat bread and
drink water he was lying to him so he
went back with him and ate bread in his
house and drank water now it happened as
they sat at the table that the word of
the Lord came to the Prophet who had
brought him back and he cried out to the
man of God who came from Judah thus says
the Lord because you have disobeyed the
word of the Lord and have not kept the
commandment which the Lord your God
commanded you but you came back eat
bread and drank water in the place of
which the Lord said to you eat no bread
and drink no water your corpse
shall not come to the tomb of your
father's so it was after he had eaten
bread and after he had drunk that he
saddled the donkey for him the prophet
whom he had brought back when he was
gone a lion met him on the road and
killed
[Music]
and his corpse was thrown on the road
and the donkey stood by it the lion also
stood by the corpse and their men passed
by and saw the corpse thrown on the road
and the Lions standing by the corpse
firmly went and told it in the city
where the old prophet dwelt now when the
prophet who had brought him back from
the way heard it he said it is the man
of God was disobedient to the word of
the Lord therefore the Lord has
delivered him to the lion which has torn
him and killed him according to the word
of the Lord which he spoke to him and he
spoke to his sons saddled the donkey for
me
so they saddled it then he went and
found his corpse thrown on the road and
the donkey and the lion standing by the
corpse the lion had not eaten the corpse
nor torn the donkey and the Prophet took
up the corpse of the man of God made it
on the donkey and so the old prophet
came to the city to mourn and to bury
him then he laid the corpse in his own
tool and they mourned over him alas my
brother so it was after he had buried
him that he spoke to his sons when I am
dead then bury me in the tomb where the
man of God is buried lay my bones beside
his bones
for the saying which he cried out by the
word of the Lord against the altar in
Bethel and against all the shrines in
the high places which are in the cities
of Samaria will surely come to pass
after this event
Jeroboam did not turn from his evil way
but again he made priests from every
class of people for the high places
whoever wished he consecrated him and he
became one of the priests of the high
places and this thing was the sin of the
house of Jeroboam so as to exterminate
and destroy it from the face of the
earth
you